docs/intro.md, before:

---
sidebar_position: 1
---

# What is Zenlytic?

Zenlytic is a LLM-powered business intelligence platform that makes self-serve analytics possible through a conversational interface to your data.

Zenlytic has a strong Cognitive layer, which means that the person or team in charge of data will model out the company's metrics explicitly defining things like revenue or conversion to what they need to be for that company. This means end users don't have to remember those definitions, and whenever the team uses data they're comparing apples-to-apples.

## How does it work?

Zenlytic has a user interface that is accessible in any Chrome-based web browser. End users of Zenlytic can make queries to their data warehouse through that interface.

The maintainers of Zenlytic will maintain their metric definitions in [yaml](https://www.redhat.com/en/topics/automation/what-is-yaml) files using a version control system like [GitHub](https://github.com).


## Where do I go from here?

If you want to learn more about how to use the user interface and the different capabilities it has, check out the [documentation on the user interface](./3_zenlytic_ui/1_using_zenlytic.md)!

If you want to learn about data modeling and how to define your metrics check out the [documentation on the data model](./4_data_modeling/1_data_modeling.md)

If you'd like to learn about how to get everything set up for defining those metric definitions in your local environment, as opposed to the Zenlytic UI, look at the [documentation on your metric development environment](./5_development_environment/1_development_environment.md)

As always, feel free to reach out to your Zenlytic contact if you have questions that aren't answered in the documentation!

Commit message:

add links for lookml -> zenml converter

docs/intro.md, after:

---
sidebar_position: 1
---

# What is Zenlytic?

Zenlytic is a LLM-powered business intelligence platform that makes self-serve analytics possible through a conversational interface to your data.

Zenlytic has a strong Cognitive layer, which means that the person or team in charge of data will model out the company's metrics explicitly defining things like revenue or conversion to what they need to be for that company. This means end users don't have to remember those definitions, and whenever the team uses data they're comparing apples-to-apples.

## How does it work?

Zenlytic has a user interface that is accessible in any Chrome-based web browser. End users of Zenlytic can make queries to their data warehouse through that interface.

The maintainers of Zenlytic will maintain their metric definitions in [yaml](https://www.redhat.com/en/topics/automation/what-is-yaml) files using a version control system like [GitHub](https://github.com).


## Where do I go from here?

If you want to learn more about how to use the user interface and the different capabilities it has, check out the [documentation on the user interface](./3_zenlytic_ui/1_using_zenlytic.md)!

If you want to learn about data modeling and how to define your metrics check out the [documentation on the data model](./4_data_modeling/1_data_modeling.md)

If you'd like to learn about how to get everything set up for defining those metric definitions in your local environment, as opposed to the Zenlytic UI, look at the [documentation on your metric development environment](./5_development_environment/1_development_environment.md)

Note: You can also use our automatic LookML -> ZenML converter [here](https://lookml-zenml.netlify.app/) to get started quickly if you're moving from Looker.

As always, feel free to reach out to your Zenlytic contact if you have questions that aren't answered in the documentation!
